Astro tutorial blog post (#389)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/astro-tutorial.mdx

---

> title: Astro Tutorial

Reviewer: Would be cool to make this a bit more fun — “Astro Tutorial” is a bit bare. How do you feel about this?

```suggestion
title: Announcing the Astro Tutorial!
```

Author: I will commit, but took the liberty of editing out your `!` because no other titles have punctuation

description: 'Wrapping up Astro Docs week with our biggest Docs announcement to date: our first Astro Tutorial.'

> publishDate: 'October 31, 2022'

Author: ```suggestion
publishDate: 'November 4, 2022'
```

socialImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
coverImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
lang: 'en'
authors:
    - chris
    - sarah
    - dan
    
---

import BlogContentImage from '/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro'
import community from '/src/assets/blog/docs-hacktoberfest/contributors.jpg'

We hope you enjoyed Astro Docs Week, where our Docs core maintainers took control of the keyboard and our Twitter account! Each day, we posted a peek behind the scenes of life on Team Docs:

> - our [low-code/no-code Hacktoberfest drive](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587160080717434881)

Reviewer: I guess this doesn’t really need to include both these `-code` adjectives — probably cleaner like this:

```suggestion
- our [low-code Hacktoberfest drive](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587160080717434881)
```

publishDate: 'November 4, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
coverImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
lang: 'en'
authors:
    - chris
    - sarah
    - dan
    
---

import CTA from '/src/components/CallToAction.astro'
import BlogContentImage from '/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro'
import community from '/src/assets/blog/docs-hacktoberfest/contributors.jpg'

We hope you enjoyed Astro Docs Week, where our Docs core maintainers took control of the keyboard and our Twitter account! Each day, we posted a peek behind the scenes of life on Team Docs:

- our [low-code/no-code Hacktoberfest drive](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587160080717434881)
- our [custom-built translation status tracker](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587547028258582528)
- our ways of publicly recognizing contributors including [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [CongratsBot] notifications

To wrap up the week, we are excited to share the biggest Docs project to date: our first Astro tutorial.

> <BlogContentImage
>     src={community}
>     alt="Avatars for the many, many contributors to Astro docs"
> />

Author: ```suggestion
```

So if you wanted to try Astro, but weren't sure where to start, check out our [Build a Blog tutorial](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/) in Docs! And if you're a seasoned Astronaut, you now have one more place you can send your Astro-curious friends.

<CTA primary href="https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/">Build a blog today!</CTA>

## We’re just getting started…

This tutorial is hot off the presses, and we’re looking for feedback on how to improve it. And, we are already brimming with ideas for more advanced topics. So be sure to reach out to Team Docs on Discord to let us know what you'd like to see next!

A huge thank you goes out to everyone involved in this challenging project! This required a lot of new UI for our Docs site, from interactive components to navigation. [Chris Swithinbank](https://twitter.com/swithinbank)
 worked tirelessly to turn words into an experience. We also had some early feedback from community members. This, with [Dan Jutan](https://twitter.com/jutanium)'s relentless editing, helped focus and refine our direction.

## Docs Week is over, but “Docs are never done”

> Are you interested in getting involved with Astro’s Docs? Check out our [Contributor’s Guide](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for [the docs repo on GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/docs) or find us in [the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://astro.build/chat). Join our team of writers, editors, translators, designers, coders, testers, builders, thinkers and dreamers. It takes a community to produce documentation, and we can’t wait for you to join us!

Author: ```suggestion
Are you interested in getting involved with Astro’s Docs? Check out our [Contributor’s Guide](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for [the docs repo on GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/docs) or find us in [the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://astro.build/chat). Join our team of writers, editors, translators, designers, coders, testers, builders, thinkers and dreamers. It takes a community to produce documentation, and we can’t wait for you to join us!

<BlogContentImage
    src={community}
    alt="Avatars for the many, many contributors to Astro docs"
/>
```

---
title: Astro Tutorial
description: 'Wrapping up Astro Docs week with our biggest Docs announcement to date: our first Astro Tutorial.'
publishDate: 'November 4, 2022'
socialImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
coverImage: '/assets/blog/astro-tutorial/cover.png'
lang: 'en'
authors:

>     - chris
>     - sarah

Reviewer: These should definitely be flipped to show Sarah first!

```suggestion
    - sarah
    - chris
```

Author: awww....

    - dan
    
---

import CTA from '/src/components/CallToAction.astro'
import BlogContentImage from '/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro'
import community from '/src/assets/blog/docs-hacktoberfest/contributors.jpg'

We hope you enjoyed Astro Docs Week, where our Docs core maintainers took control of the keyboard and our Twitter account! Each day, we posted a peek behind the scenes of life on Team Docs:

- our [low-code Hacktoberfest drive](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587160080717434881)
- our [custom-built translation status tracker](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587547028258582528)

> - our ways of publicly recognizing contributors including [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [CongratsBot] notifications

Author: ```suggestion
- our ways of publicly recognizing contributors including [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [first-time contributor celebrations](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1588285834054148096)
```

> - our ways of publicly recognizing contributors including [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [first-time contributor celebrations](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1588285834054148096)

Reviewer: I know it spoils the “our, our, our” rhythm, but this sentence keeps bugging me as clunky. Are we willing to sacrifice an “our” for something like this?

```suggestion
- how we publicly recognize contributors with [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [first-time contributor celebrations](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1588285834054148096)
```

Reviewer: I’d even go as far as removing “publicly” potentially.

```suggestion
- how we recognize contributors with [Astro Badges](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1587901468585205760) and personalized [first-time contributor celebrations](https://twitter.com/astrodotbuild/status/1588285834054148096)
```

To wrap up the week, we are excited to share the biggest Docs project to date: our first Astro tutorial.

## Hello, world!

> We know that there's only so much you can read; sometimes, you need to build. So in our first tutorial, you will build all the basic pieces of an Astro blog from scratch.

Author: ```suggestion
We know that there's only so much you can read; sometimes, you need to build. In this first project-based tutorial, you will build all the basic pieces of an Astro blog from scratch.
```

> We know that there's only so much you can read; sometimes, you need to build. In this first project-based tutorial, you will build all the basic pieces of an Astro blog from scratch.

Reviewer: Would it be punchier just to jump right into the statement here?

```suggestion
There's only so much you can read; sometimes, you need to build. In this first project-based tutorial, you will build all the basic pieces of an Astro blog from scratch.
```

> Astro, like the web, is for everyone. So it’s important that this tutorial is accessible to those just getting started with coding. You can find guidance on setting up your dev environment and using the terminal to get started. You'll even find instructions for completing the project entirely in the cloud. Pick your favorite online coding environment and go, even on a Chromebook or a tablet!

Author: ```suggestion
Astro, like the web, is for everyone. It was important to us to make this tutorial accessible to those just getting started with coding. You can find guidance on setting up your dev environment and using the terminal to get started. You'll even find instructions for completing the project entirely in the cloud. Pick your favorite online coding environment and go, even on a Chromebook or a tablet!
```

> Astro, like the web, is for everyone. It was important to us to make this tutorial accessible to those just getting started with coding. You can find guidance on setting up your dev environment and using the terminal to get started. You'll even find instructions for completing the project entirely in the cloud. Pick your favorite online coding environment and go, even on a Chromebook or a tablet!

Reviewer: Btw, didn’t say this yesterday, but 💜💜💜

So if you wanted to try Astro, but weren't sure where to start, check out our [Build a Blog tutorial](https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/) in Docs! And if you're a seasoned Astronaut, you now have one more place you can send your Astro-curious friends.

<CTA primary href="https://docs.astro.build/en/tutorial/0-introduction/">Build a blog today!</CTA>

## We’re just getting started…

> This tutorial is hot off the presses, and we’re looking for feedback on how to improve it. And, we are already brimming with ideas for more advanced topics. So be sure to reach out to Team Docs on Discord to let us know what you'd like to see next!

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial is hot off the presses, and we’re looking for feedback on how to improve it. We also have new ideas for more advanced topics. Be sure to reach out to Team Docs on Discord to let us know what you'd like to see next!
```

> A huge thank you goes out to everyone involved in this challenging project! This required a lot of new UI for our Docs site, from interactive components to navigation. [Chris Swithinbank](https://twitter.com/swithinbank)

Reviewer: Feels odd that Dan & I get a mention and you don’t @sarah11918. I know that’s because you wrote this, but I think you should be shouted out!!!

```suggestion
A huge thank you goes out to everyone involved in this challenging project!
[Sarah Rainsberger](https://twitter.com/sarah11918) spent months planning and writing to make sure the tutorial was the ideal launch pad for an Astro beginner.
This required a lot of new UI for our Docs site, from interactive components to navigation. [Chris Swithinbank](https://twitter.com/swithinbank)
```

>  worked tirelessly to turn words into an experience. We also had some early feedback from community members. This, with [Dan Jutan](https://twitter.com/jutanium)'s relentless editing, helped focus and refine our direction.

Reviewer: I could stand to see even more thanks to the community folks who joined us on calls/already PR’d the tutorial, etc. (Wording just a suggestion.)

```suggestion
 worked tirelessly to turn words into an experience. We also had some early feedback from community members. Thanks to all of those who’ve joined us on calls and contributed fixes over the past weeks. This, with [Dan Jutan](https://twitter.com/jutanium)'s relentless editing, helped focus and refine our direction.
```

> A huge thank you goes out to everyone involved in this challenging project! This required a lot of new UI for our Docs site, from interactive components to navigation. [Chris Swithinbank](https://twitter.com/swithinbank)
>  worked tirelessly to turn words into an experience. We also had some early feedback from community members. Thanks to all of those who’ve joined us on calls and contributed fixes over the past weeks. This, with [Dan Jutan](https://twitter.com/jutanium)'s relentless editing, helped focus and refine our direction.

Author: ```suggestion
A huge thank you goes out to everyone involved in this challenging project! 

[Sarah Rainsberger](https://twitter.com/sarah11918) spent months planning and writing, always championing the gentle onboarding of the Astro beginner, new developer or non-traditional device owner.

This project required significant UI additions to our Docs site, from interactive components to navigation. [Chris Swithinbank](https://twitter.com/swithinbank) worked tirelessly to turn words into an experience. If you can click it, you can thank Chris for it!

We also had some helpful early feedback from community members. Thanks to all of those who’ve joined us on calls and contributed fixes over the past weeks. This, with [Dan Jutan](https://twitter.com/jutanium)'s relentless editing, testing and error-chasing, helped focus and refine our direction.
```

## Docs Week is over, but “Docs are never done”

> Are you interested in getting involved with Astro’s Docs? Check out our [Contributor’s Guide](https://github.com/withastro/docs/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for [the docs repo on GitHub](https://github.com/withastro/docs) or find us in [the `#docs` channel on Discord](https://astro.build/chat). Join our team of writers, editors, translators, designers, coders, testers, builders, thinkers and dreamers. It takes a community to produce documentation, and we can’t wait for you to join us!

Reviewer: Love the closing shout out to community — great way to re-use the facepile too!

Reviewer: Oh, do we want a _new_ community image here? We’ve already had _more_ contributors this week! 🥳 

<img width="1399" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/357379/199942775-917b5d1c-967d-4c2e-9789-375e3964f284.png">

Reviewer: Slightly narrower version for a fuller bottom row:

<img width="1317" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/357379/199943037-e56ded59-8c6f-4348-929e-7b42edf8aed6.png">

Reviewer: Added the second version!
